>> Kyle Simpson: When I when I want
to write system automation scripts
of any sort,
command line scripts of any sort?
My go-to is to write it in JavaScript and
run it with Node.
So that's where we're
gonna our workshop today,
is how do I run Node in
that sort of enviroment?
And then we will progressively move to
bigger and bigger things, like listening
for web requests, and serving up files,
and those other more exciting things.
But we're gonna start there, and
we're actually gonna start even
deeper than that in the stack.
So to dive in,
I want to make sure you all have ex1.js
from your exercises folder open.
And you should see that there is literally
nothing but a code comment here.
We're gonna write our
very first Node program.
If you're listening to this, and
you've never written a Node program?
We're about to fix that, cuz you're
about to write your first Node program.
So before we can even
write a Node program,
we have to ask ourselves the question.
How am I going to get information
into my program, in some way?
But even more importantly than that,
how am I gonna get information out?
And I said that Node is all about I/O,
Node is all about modeling
I/O in an efficient way.
Which means we need to understand I/O at a
deeper level than you're perhaps used to.
So how could I do the canonical
hello-world of JavaScript programming,
of Node programming?
Well, you probably know in JavaScript,
that we can do something like console.log,
and you could type in hello
World in a console.log.
Before we even run this program,
however, I want to ask the question,
how is that gonna get
printed out to the screen?
A lot of us just take that stuff for
granted.
But if you're going to write Node,
and do so well, and
use the system to its most advantage,
and be most efficient with it?
I think you need to understand
something about how Node connects to
the environment around it.
So we're gonna go even deeper
than just an API, console.log.
We need to understand a standard for
I/O and system integration,
system- level task calling,
called POSIX, P-O-S-I-X.
You Google around for that, you'll
find a lot of information about that.
I'm sure I'm not even gonna
be completely accurate on it,
because I'm not a Unix
programmer from the 1970s.
But I can tell you that POSIX is
essentially the way that C-style
programs integrate with
Linux-style operating systems.
So when we talk about POSIX,
one of the major things that we're talking
about is the standard I/O subsystem.
Standard I/O is a set of three streams
that model input and output to a program.
If you've ever written a C program, for
example, you might remember reading and
writing from file descriptors like 0,
1, and 2.
That's the POSIX subsystem being
exposed to your C program by way
of these file identifiers,
or file descriptors.
0 being stdout, 1 being stdin, I'm sorry,
0 being stdin, 1 being stdout,
and 2 being stderr.
So we have these file descriptors
that reference input, output, and
a second channel of output called error.
And we're not writing C programs here,
so it's not particularly interesting,
how you do it in a C program.
But how would we access,
at a fundamental level,
those I/O streams that
are exposed to our Node program?.
Cuz Node made the choice to
expose most of the system
connections through
a POSIX-like interface.
So it'll be familiar to you, if you've
ever done POSIX-style programming in some
other language,
you'll find bits of familiarity here.
How do we access those, well,
the main touchpoint that we're gonna
access them on is called process.
This is an object that's available
in all of your Node programs.
And they hang a bunch of stuff
off of process that are these
connections to your
overall hosting system.
By the way, I keep saying this I/O thing
because we have to deal with POSIX.
You should be aware that the reason we
have Node choosing to do it with POSIX,
but we don't write something
like process in the browser,
is because JavaScript does not
have anything in the spec for I/O.
console.log is not in the JavaScript spec.
There's actually a secondary spec for
console, but not everybody adheres to it.
But it's not in the JavaScript spec,
JavaScript is agnostic to I/O.
And I actually think that's one of
the reasons why JavaScript has been so
successful.
It's been so much easier for
JavaScript to adapt to other environments,
like smart watches and robots.
And light bulbs, and refrigerators,
and TVs, and computers, and
every other kind of device
that you could imagine.
Because the language
doesn't make very many
assumptions about how
communication's gonna happen.
It's up to the environment to decide that.
Since Node was originally designed,
and likely going to be run
in those POSIX environments?
It makes an awful lot of sense that they
would choose to expose the I/O to our
programs through that POSIX interface.
In the browser,
that's not a POSIX environment,
you're not dealing with processes, and
process IDs, and that kind of stuff.
So when you do console.log, and
it's running in the browser,
the browser chose to expose
it in a different way.
It's just a direct connection over
to the developer tools, right?
And that's a difference based on
the hosting environment exposing the I/O.
So we're in Node here, and
we've been exposed to POSIX interface, and
we said there are standard I/O streams.
So we can say process.stdout to access
the stream for standard output.
And streams are a first-class citizen,
they are an actual kind of data structure
in Node that we're gonna get real
familiar with, as we go throughout today.
So the first exposure
that we have to it is,
if you want to write some content
to a stream, you call .write.
So we could have said console.log, or
we could have said process.stdout.write.
Now, I'm gonna have both of these here,
but
let's first run the console.log statement,
comment out the stdout for just a moment.
Either one of these,
they're gonna do something very similar,
which is send some output.
Switch over to your console,
and run node ex1.js,
and you see the hello
world being printed out.
Now, let's go back to that code, and
let's comment out the stdout.write
version of it, and then rerun it.
Okay, so we want to compare,
what happened when I did console.log,
and what happens when I
do process.stdout.write?
And if we run this differently,
you should notice a slight difference,
which is that the process.stdout.write
output did not include a trailing newline.
Which is why it ended up right here,
just continuing my command line
prompt right after that,
there was no trailing newline.
So one way you might think of it is,
you might think of it as console.log is
a wrapper around process.stdout.write
that throws on a trailing newline.
That’s not actually accurate,
the console.log is doing other things,
many other things besides simply
calling process.stdout.write.
But in the case of a very simple string,
we could sort of think of it in that way.
It's kind of the equivalent of if we'd
put a trailing newline in our output,
before sending it out.
The reason why I wanna make the point
about accessing these output streams in
a very bare way, is because the whole
point of Node using this asynchronous
I/O model is so that I/O can
happen as efficiently as possible.
And the least possible efficient way for
I/O to happen is for
you to print a character string
directly to some stream.
So process.stdout.write,
with a character string like that,
is the least efficient way for
that to possibly happen.
Because it has to go through some layers
of translation to end at the host
environment, that is, our shell
environment that we're running things in,
and actually end up getting printed.
We don't see that detail, but
there's layers of abstraction where that
stuff is being converted or whatever.
So if we were to, for example,
have a stream that already had
the binary bits of information for
the hello world string in it, and
we did .write with a binary stream,
with a buffer?
Then it would go much more efficiently,
directly through those subsystems, and
then still get printed out as
characters in our shell, okay?
So console.log is a developer convenience,
but under the covers,
there's a lot more detail
about how things are going.
And as we get later into our exercises,
we're gonna want to be able to efficiently
write lots of information to a stream,
even something like stdout.
And we're going to want to be doing so
at the at the sort of binary buffer level,
rather than in encoded character strings,
okay?
So that's our first kind of lesson here,
is that we're dealing with standard
output, that's kind of wrapped in
a developer convenience called console.log